**Anhedonia is living life without pleasure.** This is not the voluntary act
of foregoing niceties for spiritual enlightenment or some other end.
This is simple ennui from everything life has to offer.


One element of storytelling I find myself drawn to is 'the escape'.
The idea that the life that surrounds us isn't everything is such a
sweet lie. How beautiful would it be to discover that there is a world where
life had a meaning, where YOUR life had a meaning. A world where there were
rules. A world where you could win. Then reality comes crashing in,
reminding me of the meaninglessness of it all.


Relative to the cosmos, my life is nothing but a blip.
Relative to the history of life on the earth,
my life is a blip. Relative to human history, a blip. In the lives of
the people I know, I can't imagine myself, even in all my vanity, being
more than a passing warmth, like walking through a sunbeam. 


Regarding the world having rules, I'm sure they're out there,
but I cannot in good conscience recommend them. My world-view
barely has time to stabilize before it breaks down to be replaced
by a slightly more depressed version. Maybe having the golden rule
be 'whomever has the gold, rules' wasn't the best plan. I suppose
it's a better system than 'God said I was the most special boy and
that all my male progeny are also special boys who everyone has to serve.'
But we really can't do better than idea #2? If Python can get a version 3,
then so can society. People vehemently fight against bumping the major version,
see Python, but at some point, we can surely acknowledge that we have learned
a thing or two? But instead we're stuck. I can type on my keyboard as angrily
as I want and nobody will magically become housed. No amount of
my passive aggressive sighing while voting for the slightly less insane
geriatric monster will put food in the mouth of my starving neighbors.
I used to get really sad about all this, but now it's hard to feel anything.
I can't escape to a magical world where children getting shot in a school meant
action and change. I just live in the numbness.


My 5 paragraph essay training drilled in to me in school demands that I
acknowledge the earlier statement about winning. In order to win (P), there
must be a goal (Q). If there was a goal to life, there would be a purpose in it (R).
There is no purpose (!R), meaning, whatever (if you can convince me I'm wrong
on this point, I'd like to set up weekly meetings for you to be my new therapist).
For those following along at home, we arrive at 'no winning'. 


Anhedonia is caused by depression. Depression is apparently complicated,
but I'm willing to venture that it doesn't help when you can be casually
scrolling the news and witness a wide range of the scale of human suffering.
It's fun to yell and shout about how the world outside of my control is the problem,
but it gets very unpleasant and intimate thinking of all of the personal things
that I'm not doing to fight depression. According to the research that I've read,
diet, a sleep schedule, exposure to sunlight, exercise, a routine, journaling, meditation,
and gratitude are among the things that I should be doing but am not. When you can still
feel happy, it feels like enough to just focus on the things that you like. When the
anhedonia sets it, you have to confront the fact that before, you felt bad most of the
time, but could still enjoy a few things. Now you have to fix your life without
any of those nice brain juices to make you attached to the idea of living.


This has been a lot of depressing talk, but don't worry, I'm just a fluke of the system.
Young adults are doing better than ever. Suicide is practically non-existent. We used
the unfathomable wealth and productivity generated by the Industrial and Computing revolutions
to make the world a good place for everyone and now everyone is living a happy, meaningful life.
I'm positive that once I try medication combination #18, then it'll all click and I too can
be part of the beautiful system that is our world. :)
